Side Effects and Mutable Side Effects (#1504)
temporalio/documentation: docs/go/how-to-use-a-side-effect-in-go.md

---
id: how-to-use-a-side-effect-in-go
title: How to use a Side Effect in Go
sidebar_label: Side Effect
description: A Side Effect is a method of execution to produce nondeterministic code.
tags:
  - go
  - developer-guide
---

To use a Side Effect in Go, set the [`SideEffect()`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#SideEffect) function in your Workflow Execution and return the nondeterministic code.

```go
encodedRandom := SideEffect(func(ctx workflow.Context) interface{} {
      return rand.Intn(100)
})
var random int
encodedRandom.Get(&random)
if random < 50 {
       ....
} else {
       ....
}
```

> The only way to fail Side Effect is to panic, which causes Workflow Task failure. The Workflow Task after Timeout is rescheduled and re-executed giving Side Effect another chance to succeed. Be careful to not return any data from the Side Effect function any other way than through its recorded return value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only way to fail a Side Effect is to panic, which causes Workflow Task failure.
The Workflow Task after Timeout is rescheduled and re-executed giving the Side Effect another chance to succeed.
Be careful not to return any data from the Side Effect function any way other than through its recorded return value.
```

> Do not use `SideEffect()` to modify closures. Always retrieve result from Side Effect's encoded return value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not use `SideEffect()` to modify closures.
Always retrieve results from a Side Effect's encoded return value.
```

---

> id: how-to-use-a-side-effect-in-go

Reviewer 2: Were you aware of the existing file for this?
https://github.com/temporalio/documentation/blob/master/docs/go/how-to-execute-a-side-effect-in-go.md

tbh - I think the existing one is more to the point and clearer atm
